README.md, before:

# RB130 - RB139 Ruby Foundations: More Topics

## Table of Contents

- [Study Guide](#study-guide)
- [Coursework](#course-assignments)
- [Exercises](#rb-130-exercises)

## Study Guide

- [Blocks](./study_guide/blocks.md)
- [Open Ended Practice Questions](./study_guide/practice_questions.md)

## Course Assignments

### Lesson 1: Blocks

- [Walk-through: times method](./lesson_1/times.rb)
- [Walk-through: each method](./lesson_1/each.rb)
- [Assignment: select method](./lesson_1/select.rb)
- [Assignment: reduce method](./lesson_1/reduce.rb)
- [Assignment: Todo list](./lesson_1/todo.rb)

### Lesson 2: Testing

- [Example Car Class to test](./lesson_2/car.rb)
- [CarTest Class with Testing Suite](./lesson_2/car_test.rb)
- [Assignment: TodoList Tests](./todo/todolist_test.rb)
- [Test Coverage for TodoList](./todo/coverage/index.html)

## RB 130 Exercises

### Easy 1

- [Enumerable Class Creation](./exercises/easy1/01.rb)
- [Optional Blocks](./exercises/easy1/02.rb)
- [Find Missing Numbers](./exercises/easy1/03.rb)
- [Divisors](./exercises/easy1/04.rb) *TODO: further exploration
- [Encrypted Pioneers](./exercises/easy1/05.rb)
- [Iterators: True for Any?](./exercises/easy1/06.rb)
- [Iterators: True for All?](./exercises/easy1/07.rb)
- [Iterators: True for None?](./exercises/easy1/08.rb)
- [Iterators: True for One?](./exercises/easy1/09.rb)
- [Count Items](./exercises/easy1/10.rb)

### Easy 2

- [From-To-Step Sequence Generator](./exercises/easy2/01.rb)
- [Zipper](./exercises/easy2/02.rb)
- [map](./exercises/easy2/03.rb)
- [count](./exercises/easy2/04.rb)
- [drop_while](./exercises/easy2/05.rb)
- [each_with_index](./exercises/easy2/06.rb)
- [each_with_object](./exercises/easy2/07.rb)
- [max_by](./exercises/easy2/08.rb)
- [each_cons (Part 1)](./exercises/easy2/09.rb)
- [each_cons (Part 2)](./exercises/easy2/10.rb)

### Easy Testing

- [Boolean Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/01.rb)
- [Equality Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/02.rb)
- [Nil Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/03.rb)
- [Empty Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/04.rb)
- [Included Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/05.rb)
- [Exception Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/06.rb)
- [Type Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/07.rb)
- [Kind Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/08.rb)
- [Same Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/09.rb)
- [Refutations](./exercises/easy_testing/10.rb)

### Medium 1

- [Listening Device](./exercises/medium1/01.rb)
- [Text Analyzer - Sandwich Code](./exercises/medium1/02.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 1](./exercises/medium1/03.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 2](./exercises/medium1/04.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 3](./exercises/medium1/05.rb)
- [Method to Proc](./exercises/medium1/06.rb)
- [Bubble Sort with Blocks](./exercises/medium1/07.rb)

### Medium 2: Testing

- [Cash Register Class](./exercises/medium2/cash_register.rb)
- [Transaction Class](./exercises/medium2/transaction.rb)
- [Cash Register Tests](./exercises/medium2/cash_register_tests.rb)
- [Transaction Tests](./exercises/medium2/transaction_tests.rb)
- [Text Class](./exercises/medium2/text.rb)
- [Text Tests](./exercises/medium2/text_tests.rb)

### Advanced 1

- [Internal vs External Iterators](./exercises/advanced1/01.rb)
- [Procs, Lambdas, and Blocks: Definition and Arity](./exercises/advanced1/02.rb)

### Regex Book

- [Ruby Methods with Regex](./exercises/regex/regex_book.rb)

Commit message:

Study Guide: add notes on symbol to proc

README.md, after:

# RB130 - RB139 Ruby Foundations: More Topics

## Table of Contents

- [Study Guide](#study-guide)
- [Coursework](#course-assignments)
- [Exercises](#rb-130-exercises)

## Study Guide

- [Blocks](./study_guide/blocks.md)
  - [Closures](./study_guide/blocks.md#closures)
  - [Variable Scope and Binding](./study_guide/blocks.md#variable-scope-and-binding)
  - [What are blocks?](./study_guide/blocks.md#what-are-blocks?)
  - [Writing methods that take blocks](./study_guide/blocks.md#writing-methods-that-take-blocks)
    - [Passing Execution to a Block](./study_guide/blocks.md#passing-execution-to-a-block)
    - [Yielding with an Argument](./study_guide/blocks.md#yielding-with-an-argument)
    - [Return Value of a Block](./study_guide/blocks.md#return-value-of-a-block)
  - [Use Cases for Blocks](./study_guide/blocks.md#use-cases-for-blocks)
    - [Deferring Implementation](./study_guide/blocks.md#defer-implementation)
    - [Sandwich Code](./study_guide/blocks.md#sandwich-code)
  - [Explicit Block Parameters](./study_guide/blocks.md#explicit-block-parameters)
  - [Symbol to Proc](./study_guide/blocks.md#symbol-to-proc)
- [Open Ended Practice Questions](./study_guide/practice_questions.md)

## Course Assignments

### Lesson 1: Blocks

- [Walk-through: times method](./lesson_1/times.rb)
- [Walk-through: each method](./lesson_1/each.rb)
- [Assignment: select method](./lesson_1/select.rb)
- [Assignment: reduce method](./lesson_1/reduce.rb)
- [Assignment: Todo list](./lesson_1/todo.rb)

### Lesson 2: Testing

- [Example Car Class to test](./lesson_2/car.rb)
- [CarTest Class with Testing Suite](./lesson_2/car_test.rb)
- [Assignment: TodoList Tests](./todo/todolist_test.rb)
- [Test Coverage for TodoList](./todo/coverage/index.html)

## RB 130 Exercises

### Easy 1

- [Enumerable Class Creation](./exercises/easy1/01.rb)
- [Optional Blocks](./exercises/easy1/02.rb)
- [Find Missing Numbers](./exercises/easy1/03.rb)
- [Divisors](./exercises/easy1/04.rb) *TODO: further exploration
- [Encrypted Pioneers](./exercises/easy1/05.rb)
- [Iterators: True for Any?](./exercises/easy1/06.rb)
- [Iterators: True for All?](./exercises/easy1/07.rb)
- [Iterators: True for None?](./exercises/easy1/08.rb)
- [Iterators: True for One?](./exercises/easy1/09.rb)
- [Count Items](./exercises/easy1/10.rb)

### Easy 2

- [From-To-Step Sequence Generator](./exercises/easy2/01.rb)
- [Zipper](./exercises/easy2/02.rb)
- [map](./exercises/easy2/03.rb)
- [count](./exercises/easy2/04.rb)
- [drop_while](./exercises/easy2/05.rb)
- [each_with_index](./exercises/easy2/06.rb)
- [each_with_object](./exercises/easy2/07.rb)
- [max_by](./exercises/easy2/08.rb)
- [each_cons (Part 1)](./exercises/easy2/09.rb)
- [each_cons (Part 2)](./exercises/easy2/10.rb)

### Easy Testing

- [Boolean Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/01.rb)
- [Equality Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/02.rb)
- [Nil Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/03.rb)
- [Empty Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/04.rb)
- [Included Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/05.rb)
- [Exception Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/06.rb)
- [Type Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/07.rb)
- [Kind Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/08.rb)
- [Same Object Assertions](./exercises/easy_testing/09.rb)
- [Refutations](./exercises/easy_testing/10.rb)

### Medium 1

- [Listening Device](./exercises/medium1/01.rb)
- [Text Analyzer - Sandwich Code](./exercises/medium1/02.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 1](./exercises/medium1/03.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 2](./exercises/medium1/04.rb)
- [Passing Parameters Part 3](./exercises/medium1/05.rb)
- [Method to Proc](./exercises/medium1/06.rb)
- [Bubble Sort with Blocks](./exercises/medium1/07.rb)

### Medium 2: Testing

- [Cash Register Class](./exercises/medium2/cash_register.rb)
- [Transaction Class](./exercises/medium2/transaction.rb)
- [Cash Register Tests](./exercises/medium2/cash_register_tests.rb)
- [Transaction Tests](./exercises/medium2/transaction_tests.rb)
- [Text Class](./exercises/medium2/text.rb)
- [Text Tests](./exercises/medium2/text_tests.rb)

### Advanced 1

- [Internal vs External Iterators](./exercises/advanced1/01.rb)
- [Procs, Lambdas, and Blocks: Definition and Arity](./exercises/advanced1/02.rb)

### Regex Book

- [Ruby Methods with Regex](./exercises/regex/regex_book.rb)
